---
layout: page
title: Logic Locking
description: Protecting intelelctual property from piracy
img: assets/img/Metric for Logic Locking.jpg
importance: 1
category: Supply Chain Security
---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Metric for Logic Locking.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Machine learning (Linear regression)-based security complexity estimation model framework based on the predictive features of the CNF instance. The predictive CNF features include but not limited to - (a) sample circuit, (b) Circuit representation in conjunctive normal form (CNF), (c) VCG of the CNF, (d) CG of the CNF, (e) VG of the CNF, and (f) regression based security estimation framework.
</div>
Due to the ever-increasing manufacturing costs/complexity of designing integrated circuits (ICs) as well as shrinking technology nodes, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are outsourcing IC supply chain stages to 3rd party (primarily offshore) entities. With this globalized business model, several security threats have emerged, including IP piracy, counterfeiting, trojan hardware insertion, and overproduction. My research focuses on developing IP protection methods with quantifiable security using a machine learning (ML) model based on the features harnessed from hardware design and the IP protection method. I proposed the first-ever quantitative and qualitative metrics as a requirement for IP protection against reverse engineering. Then, by establishing a bridge between metrics and the potential methods, I introduced a compound-style design-for-trust technique that can meet the criteria needed. I analyzed the existing supply chain threats from an adversary perspective to categorize the attacks into three groups based on the unique capabilities required and the different vulnerabilities exposed by these attacks. I proposed three solid metrics to standardize the requirements of IP protection. (i) I demonstrated the importance of the underlying circuit’s algorithmic features against Boolean satisfiability attacks and developed an ML-based model for resiliency estimation in terms of attack time. (ii) I proposed a practical secret definition (type and size) against physical attacks (e.g., probing), and (iii) I showcased that graph/circuit-based attributes are effective in IP protection against structural attacks. The Boolean satisfiability attacks, using SAT solvers and model-checking theorem, are performed on the hardware circuit's conjunctive normal form (CNF). To make accurate predictions about the empirical hardness of a circuit, I generated a set of computationally feasible features that are predictive of determining the computational complexity of random 3-SAT instances [1]. Figure 1 provides an overview of the ML framework that I developed for the security estimation of IP protection against algorithmic attacks and associated features. The blue steps in Figure 1(f) are only required during the training phase, while the green steps are for the prediction phase. The brown steps are essential for both training and prediction. I developed several IP protection techniques emanating from the newly proposed security metrics that can block the required capabilities to perform the associated attacks or makes it computationally infeasible. I architected the first ever dynamic scan obfuscation-based IP protection mechanism, DOSC [2], that can mitigate the existing vulnerabilities of IP protection with a mathematical model to estimate the security complexity of the integrated circuit. DARPA has supported this work for four years (Grant # FA8650-18-1-7821) and is patented as a novel innovation [3]. Furthermore, to protect SoC IPs, I developed O'Clock [4] as a new and completely different approach whose aim is to lock the clock via clock-gating. In O'Clock, the clock tree activity factor is manipulated with the obfuscation of clock-gating circuitry, obstructing data flows and making the logic dysfunctional once the locking key is incorrect. Furthermore, O'Clock can be implemented in an industrial environment at the SoC level or module level without requiring changes to the existing design flow with minimal overhead on power, performance, and area (PPA). IP redaction using eFPGA has recently gained much momentum due to its promise to protect against insider threats [5]. Hence, I introduced EvoLUTe [6], a distinct and significantly more fine-grained IP redaction methodology using smaller reconfigurable components (such as look-up tables). In EvoLUTe, I examined both eFPGA-based and LUT-based design spaces, demonstrating that a novel cone-based and fine-grained universal function modeling approach using LUTs can provide the same degree of resiliency at a much lower area/power/delay and testability costs.
